New CSS guide: Understanding aspect ratio (#33461)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_box_sizing/understanding_aspect-ratio/index.md

When an element is rendered to the page, if no CSS is applied and no HTML sizing attributes are included, the user agent will render the object at its natural size.

Every element rendered to the page has a height and a width, and, therefore, an {{glossary("aspect ratio")}}, which is the ratio between the width and height. These natural dimensions, the size of the media object without any sizing, scaling, zooming, or borders applied, is its natural or {{glossary("intrinsic size")}}. An element's intrinsic size is determined by the element itself, not by any formatting ([box sizing](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing), border, margin, padding, etc.) applied.

## Adjusting aspect ratios of replaced elements

Replaced elements like {{htmlelement("img")}} and {{htmlelement("video")}} are replaced with media that have set dimensions and, therefore, an intrinsic aspect ratio. Consider a raster image, such as a JPEG, PNG, or GIF. If you place an image on a page and do not set a height or width, either via {{htmlelement("img")}} attributes or with CSS, it will be displayed at its intrinsic size.

```html hidden live-sample___original

> <img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />

Author: ```suggestion
<img src="flag.jpg?image=good" alt="Pride flag" />
```
just testing images

> <img src="flag.jpg?image=good" alt="Pride flag" />

Author: ```suggestion
<img src="flag.jpg?image=good" alt="Test image" />
<img src="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing/understanding_aspect-ratio/flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
```

---

> title: Understanding aspect-ratio

Author: I went with "Understanding aspect ratios and the aspect-ratio property"

An alternative could be "Understanding and setting aspect ratios".

> title: Understanding aspect-ratio

Reviewer: By including the term "responsive design" in the title, I wanted to convey the importance of aspect ratios and why anyone should care about them. If we don't use it, we can omit the property name because it is a repetition of the words aspect ratio

slug: Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing/Understanding_aspect-ratio
page-type: guide
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-sizing/#aspect-ratio
---

{{CSSRef}}

> When developing responsive sites, you often want to be able to set the inline-direction size to a percentage and have the block-direction change size proportionally, maintaining a specific aspect ratio. When it comes to images and video, maintaining these replaced elements' aspect ratio is not only necessary for {{glossary("responsive web design")}}, but it's a vital component of good user experience by preventing cumulative {{domxref("LayoutShift", "layout shift")}}.

Author: >     * We have a glossary page on "aspect ratio": https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Aspect_ratio!!
Yeah, i created that page half way through writing this tutorial.

> When developing responsive sites, you often want to be able to set the inline-direction size to a percentage and have the block-direction change size proportionally, maintaining a specific aspect ratio. When it comes to images and video, maintaining these replaced elements' aspect ratio is not only necessary for {{glossary("responsive web design")}}, but it's a vital component of good user experience by preventing cumulative {{domxref("LayoutShift", "layout shift")}}.

Author: went with:

When developing responsive sites, you often want to be able to set the width of an element to a percentage and have the height change size proportionally, maintaining a specific aspect ratio. When it comes to replaced elements, like images and video, maintaining a specific aspect ratio is not only necessary for {{glossary("responsive web design")}}, but it's a vital component of good user experience by preventing [cumulative layout shift](/en-US/docs/Learn/Performance/Multimedia#rendering_strategy_preventing_jank_when_loading_images).

With CSS, we can size replaced and non-replaced elements based on their aspect ratio. In this guide, we discuss controlling aspect ratio with CSS for design aesthetics and to improve user experience and page loading performance.

> In this guide, we learn about the `aspect-ratio` property, discuss aspect ratios for replaced and non-replaced elements, and then examine some common aspect ratio use cases.

Author: Good catch. I dropped the first "in this guide"... that was the original outline, but the guide took a turn to the 2nd "in this guide"

> Using CSS, you can adjust the size of replaced and non-replaced elements based on their aspect ratio. In this guide, we will learn about the `aspect-ratio` property, discuss aspect ratios for replaced and non-replaced elements, and then examine some common aspect ratio use cases.

> In this guide, we learn about the `aspect-ratio` property, discuss aspect ratios for replaced and non-replaced elements, and then examine some common aspect ratio use cases.

Reviewer 2: thank you so much.

> In this guide, we learn about the `aspect-ratio` property, discuss aspect ratios for replaced and non-replaced elements, and then examine some common aspect ratio use cases.

Author: @MercyGraceFavorBlessing3579 Your comments are spam. Please stop.

> ## CSS `aspect-ratio` property

Author: I partially updated the property page in a separate PR. The property page didn't even address the 2 values syntax. 

I think we need a guide on min-height v. height v. min-block-size v. block-size v. aspect-ratio. If all are declared, how is anything determined? This guides is already enough in the weeds. That will have to be a different guide.

When both the height and width or inline and block sizes are explicitly set, the `aspect-ratio` property value is ignored. In this case, there is no dimension that is allowed to be automatically sized - the preferred sizes are explicitly set - so the `aspect-ratio` property has no effect. When you declare both the inline and block dimensions, those take precedence.

With replaced elements, if you don't explicitly set a value (other than `auto`) to either dimension, both will default to their intrinsic size (any `aspect-ratio` value isn't applied). The `aspect-ratio` will apply to non-replaced elements that don't have a dimension explicitly set, as non-replaced elements are either [intrinsically](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size) or [extrinsically](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size#extrinsic_sizing) sized, getting their size from their content, container, [box model](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)properties, etc.

When an element is rendered to the page, if no CSS is applied and no HTML sizing attributes are included, the user agent will render the object at its natural size.

> Every element rendered to the page has a height and a width, and, therefore, an {{glossary("aspect ratio")}}, which is the ratio between the width and height. These natural dimensions, the size of the media object without any sizing, scaling, zooming, or borders applied, is its natural or {{glossary("intrinsic size")}}. An element's intrinsic size is determined by the element itself, not by any formatting ([box sizing](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing), border, margin, padding, etc.) applied.

Reviewer 2: thanks for your input

> Every element rendered to the page has a height and a width, and, therefore, an {{glossary("aspect ratio")}}, which is the ratio between the width and height. These natural dimensions, the size of the media object without any sizing, scaling, zooming, or borders applied, is its natural or {{glossary("intrinsic size")}}. An element's intrinsic size is determined by the element itself, not by any formatting ([box sizing](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing), border, margin, padding, etc.) applied.

Author: The inclusion of AR property details within this AR guide is intentional

<img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
<img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
```

```css hidden live-sample___image
img {
  width: 55px;
  margin-right: 5px;
}
img + img {
  width: 110px;
}
img + img + img {
  width: auto;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("image", "100", "230")}}

Only when you provide sizes for both dimensions is there a risk of distorting the replaced element. For example, setting `width: 100vw; height: 100vh;` on an image creates a variable aspect ratio; the image will appear either stretched or squashed when the viewport's aspect ratio differs from the image's natural aspect ratio.

In this example, the same image is repeated three times, explicitly sized with the same {{cssxref("height")}} value (`110px`) but different {{cssxref("width")}} values (`55px`, `110px`, and `220px`):

```html hidden live-sample___imagebad
<img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
<img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
<img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
```

```css hidden live-sample___imagebad
img {
  width: 55px;
  height: 110px;
}
img + img {
  width: 110px;
}
img + img + img {
  width: 220px;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("imagebad", "100", "120")}}

> In this example, we used `height` and `width` to distort the image. We squashed the first one and stretched the third.

Author: went with:

> We distorted the image by setting both a `height` and `width`. We squashed the first one and stretched the third.

We could have created this same distorted effect using the CSS {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} property, by setting a single dimension (not both or neither) and providing a value other than `1` (or `1 / 1`). You likely don't want to do this, but it's good to know that it's possible.

```html hidden live-sample___stretch
<img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" />
```

```css live-sample___stretch
img {
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 3;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("stretch", "100", "230")}}

> Here we declared a single dimension (in this case, `100vh` is the full height of the example {{htmlelement("iframe")}} viewport). For `aspect-ratio` to apply to replaced elements, one dimension must be set. Setting both or neither doesn't work.

Author: went with:

> We declared a single dimension; `100vh` is the full height of the example {{htmlelement("iframe")}} viewport. For the `aspect-ratio` property value to apply to replaced elements, one dimension must be set. Setting both or neither doesn't work.

---
title: Understanding aspect ratios and the aspect-ratio property
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing/Understanding_aspect-ratio
page-type: guide
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-sizing/#aspect-ratio
---

{{CSSRef}}

> When developing responsive sites, you often want to be able to set the width of an element to a percentage and have the height change size proportionally, maintaining a specific aspect ratio. When it comes to replaced elements, like images and video, maintaining a specific aspect ratio is not only necessary for {{glossary("responsive web design")}}, but it's a vital component of good user experience by preventing [cumulative layout shift](/en-US/docs/Learn/Performance/Multimedia#rendering_strategy_preventing_jank_when_loading_images).

Author: note i did a pr to add CLS to the linked page: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33488

Author: updated to 

> but it's a vital component of good user experience by preventing loading [jank]((/en-US/docs/Learn/Performance/Multimedia#rendering_strategy_preventing_jank_when_loading_images)), the layout shift that occurs when media loads after the page has already been painted causing a reflow if space for the asset has not been reserved.

```css live-sample___imagegrid
.grid {
  display: grid;
  gap: 20px;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(150px, 1fr));
  font-size: 0; /* to minimize whitespace */
}

div div {
  aspect-ratio: 5 / 2;
  background-color: #ccc;
}
```

We then size the images and set the `object-fit` property on the last two images:

```css live-sample___imagegrid
img {
  height: 100%;
  width: 100%;
}
.cover {
  object-fit: cover;
}
.contain {
  object-fit: contain;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("imagegrid", "100", "100")}}

Only the first image is distorted (stretched). We could have used the `fill` value of `object-fit` to create the same effect. The `cover` image is the full width of the container, centered vertically, and clipped to fit in the container. The `contain` value is contained; shrunk to fit and centered horizontally.

## Defining aspect ratios for non-replaced elements

While the aspect ratio of a replaced element is maintained by default, when the intrinsic size of a non-replaced element is changed the aspect ratio usually changes. For example, identical content may be three lines on a widescreen or in a wide parent container and eight lines on a narrow screen or container.

> In this example, the same quote is displayed in `200px` and `600px` wide containers, and a square set with a height matching its `200px` width:

Author: here it's not setting aspect ratio, so not adding non-replaced, as it's not relevant, but will add it on the next example. Good call.

```html hidden live-sample___alder
<p>Narrow:</p>
<blockquote>
  <q
    >When you stop living your life based on what others think of you real life
    begins. At that moment, you will finally see the door of self acceptance
    opened.</q
  >
  - Shannon L. Alder
</blockquote>
<p>Wide:</p>
<blockquote>
  <q
    >When you stop living your life based on what others think of you real life
    begins. At that moment, you will finally see the door of self acceptance
    opened.</q
  >
  - Shannon L. Alder
</blockquote>
<p>Aspect ratio with overflow:</p>
<blockquote>
  <q
    >When you stop living your life based on what others think of you real life
    begins. At that moment, you will finally see the door of self acceptance
    opened.</q
  >
  - Shannon L. Alder
</blockquote>
<p>
  <label

>     ><input type="checkbox" checked /> toggle <code>overflow: auto;</code> and

Author: that is intentional. The default overflow visible is an issue.

blockquote:nth-of-type(3) {
  height: 200px;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("alder", "100", "800")}}

To highlight the issue with setting an non-replaced element's aspect ratio via size dimensions, toggle the {{cssxref("overflow")}} property between `auto` and `visible`.

While it's possible to define an aspect ratio on non-replaced elements by setting both dimensions and hiding overflowing content, the CSS {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} property provides explicit aspect ratio support. This means a specific aspect-ratio can be set even when you don't know how content or screen sizes.

In this example, we render square boxes, regardless of the width of the text, by setting `aspect ratio: 1` on {{htmlelement("blockquote")}}, a non-replaced element:

```html hidden live-sample___words
<p>Short text:</p>
<blockquote>Breath.</blockquote>
<p>longer text:</p>
<blockquote>You're perfect just as you are.</blockquote>
```

```css live-sample___words
blockquote {
  inline-size: max-content;
  aspect-ratio: 1;
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___words
blockquote {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 1px;
  margin: 20px 0;
  background-color: #ededed;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("words", "100", "400")}}

> Each box has one dimension defined: the {{cssxref("inline-size")}}, which is the width in horizontal languages, is set to {{cssxref("max-content")}}, which sets the size to be as wide as it needs to be to fit the content without wrapping. The second dimension, in this case, the {{cssxref("block-size")}} or {{cssxref("height")}}, is set to be the same length as the first dimension. This is accomplished with the CSS {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} property. We defined the desired width-to-height ratio of the element's box to be `1`, which is the same a `1 / 1`, a square; setting the block direction to be as tall as the element is wide, without the use of the {{cssxref("height")}} or {{cssxref("block-size")}} properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each box has one dimension defined: the {{cssxref("inline-size")}}, which is the width in horizontal languages, is set to {{cssxref("max-content")}}, which sets the size to be as wide as it needs to be to fit the content without wrapping. The second dimension, in this case, the {{cssxref("block-size")}} or {{cssxref("height")}}, is set to be the same length as the first dimension. This is accomplished with the {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} property. We defined the desired width-to-height ratio of the element's box to be `1`, which is the same as `1 / 1`, a square. This sets the the block direction to match the width of the element, without using the {{cssxref("height")}} or {{cssxref("block-size")}} properties.
```

> In these examples, a size was explicitly set on the element itself. When working with non-replaced elements, aspect ratio works when there is no size dimension explicitly set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these examples, a size was explicitly set on the element itself. When working with non-replaced elements, aspect ratio comes into play when no size dimension is explicitly set.
```

```

```css live-sample___circle
div,
p {
  border-radius: 50%;
}
div {
  width: 200px;
  padding: 5px;
  background-color: #66ccff;
}
p {
  aspect-ratio: 1;
  text-align: center;
  border: 10px solid #ffffff;
  background-color: #f4aab9;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("circle", "100", "250")}}

To make the `<div>` a circle, we could have set the `height` and `width` to the same value, or set `aspect-ratio: 1` and set the `overflow` to `auto` or `hidden`, or we could have just removed the margins on the paragraph with [`margin-block: 0`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/margin-block).

```html live-sample___circle2
<section>
  <div><p>Hello world</p></div>
  <div><p>Hello world</p></div>
  <section></section>
</section>
```

```css hidden live-sample___circle2
section {
  display: flex;
  gap: 20px;
}
div {
  width: 200px;
  padding: 5px;
  background-color: #66ccff;
}
p {
  text-align: center;
  border: 10px solid #ffffff;
  background-color: #f4aab9;
}
```

```css live-sample___circle2
div,
p {
  aspect-ratio: 1;
  border-radius: 50%;
}
div:first-of-type {
  overflow: hidden;
}
div:last-of-type p {
  margin-block: 0;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("circle2", "100", "250")}}

> ## Common use cases

Author: went with

> ## Common `aspect-ratio` use cases

We can use the `aspect-ratio` feature of the `@media` media query and the CSS `aspect-ratio` property to size the iframe and the video it contains so that it is always as large as possible - taking up either the full width or height of the viewports - no matter the size of the viewport, while maintaining a set aspect ratio.

We set the landscape-oriented Youtube video to be as wide as the viewport and both portrait-oriented Titkok and Instagram video iframes to be as tall as the viewport. If a viewport's aspect ratio is wider than 16:9, we set the Youtube video to be the height of the viewport. If the viewport is narrower than 9:16, we set both Instagram and Tiktok videos to the width of the viewport.

```css
iframe.youtube {
  aspect-ratio: 16/9;
  width: 100vw;
  height: auto;
}
iframe.instagram,
iframe.tiktok {
  aspect-ratio: 9/16;
  height: 100vh;
  width: auto;
}

/* if the viewort is very wide but not very tall */
@media (aspect-ratio > 16 / 9) {
  iframe.youtube {
    width: auto;
    height: 100vh;
  }
}
/* if the viewort is very tall but not very wide */
@media (aspect-ratio < 9 / 16) {
  iframe.instagram,
  iframe.tiktok {
    height: auto;
    width: 100vw;
  }
}
```

> ### Grid of square cells

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
### Creating responsive grids of square cells
```

Author: went with "### Making grid cells square".

> A grid of square cells can be created by defining fixed column track sizes with each row being the same size as the column track. However, when creating responsive grids using `auto-fill` to fit as many column tracks as will fit in the container, we don't know the width of each item, so we don't know what height to set to create square items.

Reviewer: A few cross links can be added to reference pages
```suggestion
A grid of square cells can be created by defining fixed column track sizes, ensuring each row matches the size of the column track. However, when creating responsive grids using `auto-fill` to fit as many column tracks as possible within the container, the width of each item becomes uncertain. This makes it challenging to determine the appropriate height for creating square items.
```

> By setting an aspect ratio on the items, we can ensure when the grid items are laid out, each grid item will be as tall as it is wide, creating square grid items no matter the width or height.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting an aspect ratio on the items, we can ensure when the grid items are laid out, each grid item will be as tall as it is wide, creating square grid items regardless of the container's dimensions.
```

> In this square grid item example, the grid tracks are auto-sized, taking their size from the items. Each item will be at least 95px wide but could be much wider. No matter the width, each item will be a square, with the height being sized by the `aspect-ratio` to be as tall as it is wide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example of square grid items, the grid tracks are auto-sized, taking their size from the items. Each item will be at least `95px` wide but could be much wider. No matter the width, each item will be a square, with the height determined by the `aspect-ratio` to match its width.
```

```css
.grid {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(95px, 1fr));
}

.item {
  aspect-ratio: 1;
}
```

```css hidden
div {
  gap: 20px;
  font-size: 1.1;
}

div div {
  background-color: #ccc;
  aspect-ratio: 1;
  counter-increment: items;
}
div div::after {
  content: counter(items);
}
.item::after {
  /*  hide the number if there's content  */
  position: absolute;
  color: transparent;
}
```

```html hidden
<div class="grid">
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div class="item">
    This text would overflow the parent, but we've set properties to prevent it
    from doing so.
  </div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div class="item"><img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" /></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
</div>
```

> For the content of a grid item to not grow beyond the preferred height set by the `aspect-ratio`, set the {{cssxref("min-height")}} to `0` and the {{cssxref("overflow")}} to a value other than `visible`. This will work for intrinsically sized content. If you have content that is intrinsically larger than the available space, set that content to not be larger than the grid item by setting the {{cssxref("max-height")}} ( or {{cssxref("max-width")}}, depending on the content) to `100%`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the content of a grid item to not grow beyond the preferred height set by the `aspect-ratio`, set the {{cssxref("min-height")}} to `0` and the {{cssxref("overflow")}} to a value other than `visible`. This will work for intrinsically sized content. If you have content that is intrinsically larger than the available space, set that content to not be larger than the grid item by setting the {{cssxref("max-height")}} (or {{cssxref("max-width")}}, depending on the content) to `100%`.
```

```css
.item {
  min-height: 0;
  overflow: auto;

> }
> .item > * {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}

.item > * {
```

  max-height: 100%;
}
```

> Alternatively, the [`object-fit` property](#fitting_replaced_elements_within_their_containers) can be used.

Reviewer: The placement of this sentence is odd. Also, it can be changed to active voice. It can also be removed if we're not demonstrating it in the current example

> {{EmbedLiveSample("grid of square cells", "100", "350")}}

Reviewer: Is the height of this Result iframe intentional?

Author: no. it wasn't. thanks. good catch.

In this example, the same quote is displayed in `200px` and `600px` wide containers, and a square is set with a height matching its `200px` width:

```html hidden live-sample___alder
<p>Narrow:</p>
<blockquote>
  <q
    >When you stop living your life based on what others think of you real life
    begins. At that moment, you will finally see the door of self acceptance
    opened.</q
  >
  - Shannon L. Alder
</blockquote>
<p>Wide:</p>
<blockquote>
  <q
    >When you stop living your life based on what others think of you real life
    begins. At that moment, you will finally see the door of self acceptance
    opened.</q
  >
  - Shannon L. Alder
</blockquote>
<p>Aspect ratio with overflow:</p>
<blockquote>
  <q
    >When you stop living your life based on what others think of you real life
    begins. At that moment, you will finally see the door of self acceptance
    opened.</q
  >
  - Shannon L. Alder
</blockquote>
<p>
  <label

>     ><input type="checkbox" checked /> toggle <code>overflow: auto;</code> and

Author: ```suggestion
    ><input type="checkbox" checked /> Toggle between <code>overflow</code> values <code>auto</code> and
```

>     <code>overflow: visible;</code></label

Author: ```suggestion
    <code>visible</code></label
```

  inline-size: max-content;
  aspect-ratio: 1;
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___words
blockquote {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 1px;
  margin: 20px 0;
  background-color: #ededed;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("words", "100", "400")}}

Each box has one dimension defined: the {{cssxref("inline-size")}}, which is the width in horizontal languages, is set to {{cssxref("max-content")}}, which sets the size to be as wide as it needs to be to fit the content without wrapping. The second dimension, in this case, the {{cssxref("block-size")}} or {{cssxref("height")}}, is set to be the same length as the first dimension. This is accomplished with the {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} property. We defined the desired width-to-height ratio of the element's box to be `1`, which is the same as `1 / 1`, a square. This sets the the block direction to match the width of the element, without using the {{cssxref("height")}} or {{cssxref("block-size")}} properties.

In these examples, a size was explicitly set on the element itself. When working with non-replaced elements, aspect ratio comes into play when no size dimension is explicitly set.

### Creating a circle based on the container size

> The inline-size of non-replaced block-level elements is the size of their container's [content box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/box-edge#content-box). Because they have an size by default, they don't need to have an explicit size set for the `aspect-ratio` property to work.

Author: ```suggestion
The inline-size of non-replaced block-level elements is the size of their container's [content box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/box-edge#content-box). Because they have a size by default, they don't need to have an explicit size set for the `aspect-ratio` property to work.
```

}

.item::after {
  /*  hide the number if there's content  */
  position: absolute;
  color: transparent;
}
```

```html hidden
<div class="grid">
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div class="item">
    This text would overflow the parent, but we've set properties to prevent it
    from doing so.
  </div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div class="item"><img src="flag.jpg" alt="Pride flag" /></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
  <div></div>
</div>
```

For the content of a grid item to not grow beyond the preferred height set by the `aspect-ratio`, set the {{cssxref("min-height")}} to `0` and the {{cssxref("overflow")}} to a value other than `visible`. This will work for intrinsically sized content. If you have content that is intrinsically larger than the available space, set that content to not be larger than the grid item by setting the {{cssxref("max-height")}} (or {{cssxref("max-width")}}, depending on the content) to `100%`.

```css
.item {
  min-height: 0;
  overflow: auto;
}

.item > * {
  max-height: 100%;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("making_grid_cells_square", "100", "380")}}

## See also

> - [CSS box sizing](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_sizing) module

Author: It's only tangential, so i think that reference is enough. I'll be adding CLS content in a few weeks, so will link that instead when it's published.
